# Evaluation-of-Semantic-Antagonisms-in-Tragedies-for-Artificial-Literature

Abstract: With the effect of upcoming generative models, text generation processes with structural features have become increasingly possible. Literary texts and more specifically tragedies are the leading texts with structural features. The most important factor in Quantitative Formalism studies is the ability to reveal the relationships within or between existing texts. Shakespeare stands before us as one of the most important tragedy writers. The works of this renaissance man show the structural features of tragedies in the Aristotelian sense. This study was conducted to determine the semantic antagonism, which is the most important structural feature of a tragedy. Demonstration of such structures are important for evaluating future Artificial Literature (ALit).

For this aim, we extract the feature vectors for each sentence of the characters by using Sentence Transformer and mapped onto a lower dimensional space with UMap. By using optimized K-means, the sentences are clustered. These are the topics of sentences by characters. Thus, each character belongs to different clusters by the number of occurrences of their sentences in the corresponding cluster. Then, the membership to the cluster can be represented as a probability.

By using this probability distribution we demonstrated semantic antagonisms in major tragedies in Shakespeare. The results are compatible with the readings of the plays. It is also possible to evaluate a play according to another by using embedding space and its clusters.
